# graph_box
Graphs, graph algorithms and graph visualizations all in one sandbox.

## Implemented in the project so far:
- ### Grid graph generator:
  - Generates an NxM graph with node x,y coordinates based on the width and height of the window divided by the desired spacing. 
  - Each nodes adjacency list is populated in one of 9 configurations 4 corner cases(2 neighbors), 4 edge cases(3 neighbors) and 1 middle case(4 neighbors).

- ### Complete graph generator:
  - Generates an N node graph with node x,y coordinates corresponding to points on an N-gon or random non-repeating x,y coordinates within the windows height and width.
  - Each nodes adjacency list is populated with every other node in the graph.
  
- ### Naive minimum spanning tree solver ( O(N^3) - Ω(N^2) )
  - Implemented as a method of the base graph class allows the findMST() function to be used on any of the above generated graphs.
  - Worst case complexity occurs with complete graphs as their adjacency lists contain N-1 nodes.
  - Best case complexity occurs with sparse graphs since their adjacecny lists have a small constant number of nodes << N.
  
- ### Simple maze *creator ( O(N^4) - Ω(N^3) )
  - *Does not have its own data structure with clean graph yet.
  - Based on the MST algorithm.
  - Allows for the generation of simple mazes.
  - Worst case complexity occurs with complete graphs as their adjacency lists contain N-1 nodes.
  - Best case complexity occurs with sparse graphs since their adjacecny lists have a small number of nodes << N.
  - The mazes are generated by shuffling the MST as it is being built, this shuffling is a linear operation thus increases our complexity by N.
  
## Want to implement:

- ### Optimized MST ( N*log(N) )

- ### Convex hull solver

- ### 1-Tree heuristic solver

- ### Brute force TSP solver

- ### True maze generator

- ### DFS maze solver

- ### BFS maze solver

- ### Many many more...
